# CriticalMassApplication

## Work / Project Examples
- XlsxGenJs: A private NPM module in Node.js which can convert data in JSON format to Microsoft Excel Workbooks. The library has a class structure, as supported by the latest es6 version of JavaScript, and provides functions which can be used to add sheets, texts, tables, images and active chart objects into excel workbooks. The unique feature of this library is the ability to create active chart objects, which is missing in existing public NPM library. The options defined in JSON data can also add different excel supported styles to the added elements. Based on the called functions, OOXML files are generated which together represent an excel workbook with added elements and styles. On not finding any library which can export interactable active chart objects, I was tasked to familiarize myself with OOXML and create this library during my internship at Inrhythm Solutions Pvt. Ltd. I was the only developer working on this project.

- Jive: A beginner friendly Java IDE built to serve as a better tool to learn Java as compared to existing IDEs. It provides functionalities to highlight the source of runtime exceptions in the source file and elaborates the reason for exception as a text or audio message (using a speech synthesis system). It also provides an interface to run Client-Server programs in the same window, unlike existing IDEs, using Multi-Threading concepts of Java. I created this project as a part of my undergraduate coursework and was the only developer involved. The entire project is built using Apache Ant and the Jar for the application along with the project files can be found at the following link:
https://github.com/KrishnaTejaReddyV/Jive

- TTHPL Website: A Python Flask based website to handle day to day activities of Talent Treasure Hunt Pvt. Ltd., an NGO in India. The website allows associated schools, students, interns, volunteers and business partners to register under the organisation and contains profiles for each school and student wherein they can handle all activities related to them. It also contains a ranking system to rank students of different schools based on their score in a national examination. I served as a Back-end Developer for this project and also handled few front-end modules and JavaScript animations. The link to the website and related files of this project can be found at the following link:
https://github.com/KrishnaTejaReddyV/TTHPL/tree/backend


## Inspiration
- Chrome V8: It is an open-source JavaScript engine for Google Chrome or Chromium web browser. As a part of my graduate curriculum, I am currently enrolled in a course about Just-In-Time Compilers and Garbage Collectors. After being introduced to major optimization techniques used to enhance performance of programming languages, I was drawn towards Google's V8 engine. I started looking into their tech conferences and their public repo (https://github.com/v8/v8) to gain more insight into the developments they have made over the years and how they affected their performance. The most recent one was the introduction of Turbofan Optimization Compiler and Orinoco Garbage Collector. The way they implemented Parallel Scavenge algorithm to reduce the garbage collection time without compromising performance really fascinated me. Taking their implementation as a reference, I am currently working on building a Parallel version of a Generational, En-Mass Promotional and Compaction based Garbage Collector of SDyn, which is an educational JIT Compiler. 

- Google Puppeteer: It is an open source Node.js library which provides a high-level API to control Chrome or Chromium over Dev-Tools protocol and can be used to automate Chrome-based applications. Its implementation and usage can be found at its github page (https://github.com/GoogleChrome/puppeteer). I was initially familiar with the functionalities offered by PhantomJs as a headless browser. However, it had its own performance issues. Working with it brought up certain development issues that were recognised but not resolved. On a hunt to find an alternative, I came across Google Puppeteer. Puppeteer overcame all issues of PhantomJs and provided extra functionalities as well. It can be easily setup and the functions are very easy to understand. Not only did it overcome the complexities of automation tools like Selenium, it was way faster than them. This project really caught my eye and I convinced my manager (at Inrhythm Solutions Pvt. Ltd.) to replace an existing PhantomJs based screenshot capturing module and created a version of it using Google Puppeteer. The actively involved development community of Google made this package more dependable.

- Threatpost.com: It is an independent news blog which showcases major cybersecurity news and provides analysis of how to stay safe from such attacks. Having taken a course on Computer Security and Privacy as my graduate coursework, I was really drawn towards this site. In today's world, one would expect there to be enough progress and believe that cyber crimes don't occur very often. But that's not true. Some incident occurs at some part of the world every day, which leaves individual systems or corporations vulnerable. This blog makes sure that it covers all these incidents and provides expert opinion over way to mitigate or prevent such attacks. This blog by itself serves as a great source of knowledge for cyber security related issues and the detailed articles are easy to follow. Reading malware related articles of this blog made me wonder about the patterns that could exist in malware and how they are detected. Hence, I presented a research survey as my coursework project which discussed about different Feature Analysis based Malware Detection Techniques using Machine Learning Algorithms.


## Focus
Throughout my technical journey, I worked with many programming languages and frameworks. However, I always had an undeniable affinity towards Java. The projects I was involved in required the usage of different frameworks, but I never really got to explore the services offered by J2EE and Java Spring Framework in their entirety. I would love if I had an opportunity to work on a Full Stack application which uses these technologies. Having said that, Server-side or Back-end development really fascinates me and such a project on any platform would keep me completely immersed. Given my technical skillset, I am confident that I would grasp any technology quickly and be an asset to the organisation.


## Code Challenge
The following CodeSandbox link provides my implementation of the challenge:
https://codesandbox.io/s/q4j3mzvzw
